---
layout: post-light-feature
title: Week 1
description: "First blog entry"
categories: articles
date: 2017-09-05
image: 
        feature: soft-trees.jpg
---
The secret “web” room

I have been thinking a lot about the idea that was introduced in class, and mentioned in Ceglowski's piece, of the internet as a physical thing. I find myself to be very ignorant in how hardware and software work together to bring us all of the technological luxuries we have today. Is there one big room somewhere where “the internet” is? Whats up with this underground cables that we learned about last class… Are they all connected to a larger room where everything connects? Where is this room? In his piece, Ceglowski speaks of the web during the beginning of the internet. I still have a difficult time understanding what this web looks like and how it being a physical element of the world affects it. If we look at it from a perspective of atoms and particles, what do we get? Can this “web” exist without the devices that allow us to access it? What is it about our devices that allow us to connect. Everytime I tell my phone to connect itself to the wifi, what exactly is it doing? 


Correlation is not causation

I remember sitting on that first day of FWT, with eyes tired of all of those BBC Academy videos when I stumbled with the “Data Journalism” section of my training. “Correlation is not causation” it said. I remember hearing that phrase being repeated over and over throughout the rest of my internship whenever a journalist was being shut down by one of the editors. “Give me real proof and I’ll publish the story.”

My FWT experiences, as well as last week’s introduction to class have had me thinking a lot about data. I have always believed that one of the reasons why Venezuelans (as well as other hispanic latin american) import so much culture from the US can be found in a seemingly regular word that cannot be translated to Spanish: accountability. The fact that in the US everything seems to be measured leads them to have a deeper understanding about society in modern times. My society craves this understanding, but does not have the resources, will and infrastructure of the US. Instead we just assume that we have the same trends or simply look at theirs. This has me thinking on the importance of data. How can data be collected effectively? What data is important? Who decides? Can the internet be used a a tool that not only democratizes education and access but also allows us to grow exponentially as a species? If so, I sure hope we do it for the better. 



